# Update & Delete


**The `<form>` element defines how the data will be sent. All of its attributes are designed to let you configure the request to be sent when a user hits a submit button. The two most important attributes are action and method.**

The names and values of the non-file form controls are sent to the server as name=value pairs joined with ampersands. The action value should be a file on the server that can handle the incoming data, including ensuring server-side validation. The server then responds, generally handling the data and loading the URL defined by the action attribute, causing a new page load (or a refresh of the existing page, if the action points to the same page).

**The GET method** is the method used by the browser to ask the server to send back a given resource

**The POST method** is a little different. It's the method the browser uses to talk to the server when asking for a response that takes into account the data provided in the body of the HTTP request

Whichever HTTP method you choose, the server receives a string that will be parsed in order to get the data as a list of key/value pairs

**The enctype attribute** This attribute lets you specify the value of the Content-Type HTTP header included in the request generated when the form is submitted. 

For example:

```
<form method="post" action="https://www.foo.com" enctype="multipart/form-data">
  <div>
    <label for="file">Choose a file</label>
    <input type="file" id="file" name="myFile">
  </div>
  <div>
    <button>Send the file</button>
  </div>
</form>
```
*NOTE : a front-end developer is not the one who should define the security model of the data. It's possible to perform client-side form validation, but the server can't trust this validation because it has no way to truly know what has really happened on the client-side.*


[Read](https://translate.google.com/?sl=en&tl=ar&text=As%20we%27d%20alluded%20to%20above%2C%20sending%20form%20data%20is%20easy%2C%20but%20securing%20an%20application%20can%20be%20tricky.%20Just%20remember%20that%20a%20front-end%20developer%20is%20not%20the%20one%20who%20should%20define%20the%20security%20model%20of%20the%20data.It%27s%20possible%20to%20perform%20client-side%20form%20validation%2C%20but%20the%20server%20can%27t%20trust%20this%20validation%20because%20it%20has%20no%20way%20to%20truly%20know%20what%20has%20really%20happened%20on%20the%20client-side.%0A%0AIf%20you%27ve%20worked%20your%20way%20through%20these%20tutorials%20in%20order%2C%20you%20now%20know%20how%20to%20markup%20and%20style%20a%20form%2C%20do%20client-side%20validation%2C%20and%20have%20some%20idea%20about%20submitting%20a%20form.&op=translate)


***



[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode301.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com
