# Review, Research, and Discussion

## What’s the difference between PUT and PATCH

The both are for http methods so the http protocol thats what power the web that how's browser and other clients communicate with servers.

PATCH is for partial replacement.. need just update a part of an entity of the resource but all other information i want to keep there as is.

PUT is a complete replacement.

***

##  links to services or tools that allow you to “mock” an API for development 

A mock API allows you to begin development without waiting for the API team to build the services you need.  mocking allows you to rapidly prototype different potential response shapes to see how they work with your app.

* [Nock](https://github.com/nock/nock)
* [MockServer](https://www.mock-server.com/)
* [Postman](https://learning.postman.com/docs/designing-and-developing-your-api/mocking-data/setting-up-mock/)

***

## Compare and contrast Swagger and APIDoc.js 1 Which HTTP status codes should be sent with each type of (un)successful API call?

Swagger is a set of rules (in other words, a specification) for a format describing REST APIs. ... As a result, it can be used to share documentation among product managers, testers and developers, but can also be used by various tools to automate API-related processes.


**200s**: Success codes returned when browser request was received

**400s**: Client error codes indicating that there was a problem with the request.
**500s**: Server error codes indicating that the request was accepted, but that an error on the server prevented the fulfillment of the request.

***

## Compare and contrast SOAP and ReST
REST: Representative state transfer
it is a newcomer to the blocks it seeks to fix the problems with soap and provide truly simple method of accessing web services.. 70% of APIs are REST apis
you need to select between soap and rest based on the languege programming that you use  

Soap is definitly the heavyweight choice for web server access. (easier to use and more flixible)


***

# Reading materials

## An introduction to NodeJS and Express

Node (or more formally Node.js) is an open-source, cross-platform runtime environment that allows developers to create all kinds of server-side tools and applications in JavaScript. The runtime is intended for use outside of a browser context

benifit of Node:

* Node was designed to optimize throughput and scalability in web applications and is a good solution for many common web-development problems
* less time is spent dealing with "context shift" between languages when you're writing both client-side and server-side code.
* The node package manager (NPM) provides access to hundreds of thousands of reusable packages. It also has best-in-class dependency resolution and can also be used to automate most of the build toolchain.

creates a web server that listens for any kind of HTTP request on the URL http://127.0.0.1:8000/

1. Create the folder called test-node

2. Create file called hello.js
and paste the following code to it:

```
// Load HTTP module
const http = require("http");

const hostname = "127.0.0.1";
const port = 8000;

// Create HTTP server
const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {

   // Set the response HTTP header with HTTP status and Content type
   res.writeHead(200, {'Content-Type': 'text/plain'});

   // Send the response body "Hello World"
   res.end('Hello World\n');
});

// Prints a log once the server starts listening
server.listen(port, hostname, () => {
   console.log(`Server running at http://${hostname}:${port}/`);
})
```
3. back to trminal and ren `node hello.js`

Other common web-development tasks are not directly supported by Node itself.

Experss  is the most popular Node web framework, and is the underlying library for a number of other popular Node web frameworks

* Write handlers for requests with different HTTP verbs at different URL paths (routes).
* Integrate with "view" rendering engines in order to generate responses by inserting data into templates.
* Set common web application settings like the port to use for connecting, and the location of templates that are used for rendering the response.
* Add additional request processing "middleware" at any point within the request handling pipeline.

What does Express code look like??

```
const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const port = 3000;

app.get('/', (req, res) => {
  res.send('Hello World!')
});

app.listen(port, () => {
  console.log(`Example app listening on port ${port}!`)
});
```

***

## What is NPM?

npm is the world's largest software registry. Open source developers from every continent use npm to share and borrow packages, and many organizations use npm to manage private development as well.

npm consists of three distinct components:

the website
the Command Line Interface (CLI)
the registry

Use the website to discover packages, set up profiles, and manage other aspects of your npm experience.

The CLI runs from a terminal, and is how most developers interact with npm.

The registry is a large public database of JavaScript software and the meta-information surrounding it.

Use npm to . . .
Adapt packages of code for your apps, or incorporate packages as they are.


Download standalone tools you can use right away.


Run packages without downloading using npx.


Share code with any npm user, anywhere.


Restrict code to specific developers.


Create organizations to coordinate package maintenance, coding, and developers.


Form virtual teams by using organizations.


Manage multiple versions of code and code dependencies.


Update applications easily when underlying code is updated.


Discover multiple ways to solve the same puzzle.


Find other developers who are working on similar problems and projects.


## What is TDD?

“Test-driven development” refers to a style of programming in which three activities are tightly interwoven: coding, testing

Expected Benefits
many teams report significant reductions in defect rates, at the cost of a moderate increase in initial development effort


the same teams tend to report that these overheads are more than offset by a reduction in effort in projects’ final phases


although empirical research has so far failed to confirm this, veteran practitioners report that TDD leads to improved design qualities in the code, and more generally a higher degree of “internal” or technical quality, for instance improving the metrics of cohesion and coupling


## 


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com