## Review, Research, and Discussion

### 1. Explain what a “Singleton” is (in Computer Science terms)?

A singleton is a class that allows only a single instance of itself to be created and gives access to that created instance. It contains static variables that can accommodate unique and private instances of itself. It is used in scenarios when a user wants to restrict instantiation of a class to only one object.

### 2. Explain how the Singleton pattern can be used with Node modules, specifically with classes

Sometimes you need to make sure that you have one and only one instance of an object. This is where the singleton pattern can be useful. A singleton represents a single instance of an object. Only one can be created, no matter how many times the object is instantiated. If there’s already an instance, the singleton will create a new one. 

### 3. If you were tasked with building a middleware system like Express uses, what approach might you take to construct/operate it?

There are 2 phases in this middleware approach-

Registration: Middlewares are Registered against an event or globally. It means that whenever that event occurs, all middlewares registered against that event or are global are called in order in which they were registered

Execution: The event is dispatched and the registered middlewares are called


***

## Terms

`Router Middleware` 

Middlewares are features added on top of his basic handler, in the form of a stack of functions that take this request into a pipeline doing stuff with it (logging, parsing body, security ...ect).

Router is one of those middleware, what it does actualy is to take the original request, and forward it to a sub handler according to the path

`Dynamic Module Loading`

Dynamic loading is a mechanism by which a computer program can, at run time, load a library (or other binary) into memory, retrieve the addresses of functions and variables contained in the library, execute those functions or access those variables, and unload the library from memory.



`Singleton Pattern`

singleton pattern is a software design pattern that restricts the instantiation of a class to one "single" instance. This is useful when exactly one object is needed to coordinate actions across the system. The term comes from the mathematical concept of a singleton.


`CRUD -> REST Method Matches`

Create = PUT with a new URI
         POST to a base URI returning a newly created URI
Read   = GET
Update = PUT with an existing URI
Delete = DELETE



`Mock Testing`

Mock testing is an approach to unit testing that lets you make assertions about how the code under test is interacting with other system modules. In mock testing, the dependencies are replaced with objects that simulate the behaviour of the real ones.

***

## Securing Passwords with Bcrypt Hashing Function

Hashing is the greatest way for protecting passwords and considered to be pretty safe for ensuring the integrity of data or password.


The benefit of hashing is that if someone steals the database with hashed passwords, they only make off with the hashes and not the actual plaintext passwords.

**PROBLEMS WITH CRYPTOGRAPHIC HASH ALGORITHM**

- Brute Force attack: 

Hashes can't be reversed, so instead of reversing the hash of the password, an attacker can simply keep trying different inputs until he does not find the right now that generates the same hash value, called brute force attack.

- Hash Collision attack:

 Hash functions have infinite input length and a predefined output length, so there is inevitably going to be the possibility of two different inputs that produce the same output hash.

 ```
PBKDF2 and BCrypt are algorithms called Key Stretching.

Bcrypt is an adaptive hash function allows you to determine how expensive the hash function will be.

```
***

## Basic access authentication

basic access authentication is a method for an HTTP user agent (e.g. a web browser) to provide a user name and password when making a request.

HTTP Basic authentication (BA) implementation is the simplest technique for enforcing access controls to web resources because it does not require cookies, session identifiers, or login pages; rather, HTTP Basic authentication uses standard fields in the HTTP header.

***

## ***node.bcrypt.js***

**A library to help you hash passwords.**

Install via NPM:
```
npm install bcrypt
```

async (recommended)

```
const bcrypt = require('bcrypt');
```

• To hash a password:

- Technique 1 (generate a salt and hash on separate function calls):

```js
bcrypt.genSalt(saltRounds, function(err, salt) {
    bcrypt.hash(myPlaintextPassword, salt, function(err, hash) {
        // Store hash in your password DB.
    });
});
```

- Technique 2 (auto-gen a salt and hash):

```js
bcrypt.hash(myPlaintextPassword, saltRounds, function(err, hash) {
    // Store hash in your password DB.
});
```

• To check a password:

```js
// Load hash from your password DB.
bcrypt.compare(myPlaintextPassword, hash, function(err, result) {
    // result == true
});
bcrypt.compare(someOtherPlaintextPassword, hash, function(err, result) {
    // result == false
});
```

***

*References*

[Securing Passwords](https://thehackernews.com/2014/04/securing-passwords-with-bcrypt-hashing.html)

[Basic Auth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication)

[OWASP auth cheatsheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Authentication_Cheat_Sheet.html)

[bcrypt docs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bcrypt)




***



[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com