# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. Write the following steps in the correct order:

- Receive access token
- Redirect to a third party authentication endpoint
- Register your application to get a client_id and client_secret
- Make a request to a third-party API endpoint
- Ask the client if they want to sign in via a third party
- Receive authorization code
- Make a request to the access token endpoint

**Solution**

- Register your application to get a client_id and client_secret
- Ask the client if they want to sign in via a third party
- Redirect to a third party authentication endpoint
- Receive authorization code
- Make a request to a third-party API endpoint
- Receive access token
- Make a request to the access token endpoint

2. What can you do with an authorization code?

An authorization code is an alphanumeric password that authorizes its user to purchase, sell or transfer items, or to enter information into a security-protected space.

3. What can you do with an access token?

The access token represents the authorization of a specific application to access specific parts of a user's data. Access tokens must be kept confidential in transit and in storage.

4. What’s a benefit of using OAuth instead of your own basic authentication?

OAuth is a delegated authorization framework for REST/APIs. It enables apps to obtain limited access (scopes) to a user's data without giving away a user's password. It decouples authentication from authorization and supports multiple use cases addressing different device capabilities.


***

## Terms 

Client ID : 

Your client ID , also referred to as a UCI , is on all documents you get from us. It is an eight or ten-digit number that looks like this: 0000-0000 or 00-0000-0000. If you are applying to us for the first time, you will not yet have a client ID .

Client Secret :

A client secret is a secret known only to your application and the authorization server. It protects your resources by only granting tokens to authorized requestors. Protect your client secrets and never include them in mobile or browser-based apps.

Authentication Endpoint :

Endpoint authentication is a security mechanism designed to ensure that only authorized devices can connect to a given network, site or service. The approach is also known as device authentication. ... The password response sent from the registered device verifies that the user is connecting from an authorized endpoint.

Access Token Endpoint :

A token endpoint is an HTTP endpoint that micropub clients can use to obtain an access token given an authorization code.

API Endpoint :

is one end of a communication channel. When an API interacts with another system, the touchpoints of this communication are considered endpoints. For APIs, an endpoint can include a URL of a server or service. ... The place that APIs send requests and where the resource lives, is called an endpoint.

Authorization Code :

An authorization code is an alphanumeric password that authorizes its user to purchase, sell or transfer items, or to enter information into a security-protected space.

Access Token :

An access token is a tiny piece of code that contains a large amount of data. Information about the user, permissions, groups, and timeframes is embedded within one token that passes from a server to a user's device. Plenty of websites use access tokens.

***

## What is JSON Web Token?

JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

## When should you use JSON Web Tokens?

Authorization // Information Exchange


***

[Resource 1](https://jwt.io/introduction/)
[Resource 2](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27301557/if-you-can-decode-jwt-how-are-they-secure)
[Resource 3](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken)


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com