# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?

Basic Authorization: It is a simple authentication scheme built into the HTTP protocol. The client sends HTTP requests with the Authorization header that contains the word Basic, followed by a space and a base64-encoded(non-encrypted) string username: password.

Bearer Authorization: The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header while requesting to protected resources

2. What does the JSON Web Token package do?

A JSON Web Token is used to send information that can be verified and trusted by means of a digital signature. It comprises a compact and URL-safe JSON object, which is cryptographically signed to verify its authenticity, and which can also be encrypted if the payload contains sensitive information.

3. What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?

- Never store unencrypted secrets in .git repositories. Avoid git add * commands on git. Add sensitive files in .gitignore. Don't rely on code reviews to discover secrets. ...
- Don't share your secrets unencrypted in messaging systems like slack.
- Store secrets safely.
- Restrict API access and permissions.

***

# Terms

**Encryption** is the method by which information is converted into secret code that hides the information's true meaning. ... In computing, unencrypted data is also known as plaintext, and encrypted data is called ciphertext. The formulas used to encode and decode messages are called encryption algorithms, or ciphers.

**Token** : sequence of characters having a collective meaning. The character sequence forming a token is called the Lexeme.

**Bearer** Token. A security token with the property that any party in possession of the token (a "bearer") can use the token in any way that any other party in possession of it can. Using a bearer token does not require a bearer to prove possession of cryptographic key material (proof-of-possession).

**Secret** is as coding system used for transmitting messages requiring brevity or secrecy.

**JSON Web Token (JWT)** is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed.

***

## 5 steps to simple role-based access control (RBAC)

RBAC is the idea of assigning system access to users based on their role in an organization. It's important to remember that not every employee needs a starring role.

### Benefits of RBAC?

With the proper implementation of RBAC, the assignment of access rights becomes systematic and repeatable. Further, it is much easier to audit user rights, and to correct any issues identified.

[reference 1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control)

[reference 2](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3060780/5-steps-to-simple-role-based-access-control.html)

***

[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com