## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. Why is access control important?

Access controls limit access to information and information processing systems. When implemented effectively, they mitigate the risk of information being accessed without the appropriate authorisation, unlawfully and the risk of a data breach.


2. Describe an application that would need access control.

online social networks are able to provide open platforms to enable the seamless sharing of profile data to enable public developers to interface and extend the social network services as applications. At the same time, these open interfaces pose serious privacy concerns as third party applications are usually given access to the user profiles. Current related research has focused on mainly user-to-user interactions in social networks, and seems to ignore the third party applications.


3. What is a role used for?

 is a mechanism that restricts system access. It involves setting permissions and privileges to enable access to authorized users. Most large organizations use role-based access control to provide their employees with varying levels of access based on their roles and responsibilities.





4. Why is role based access control more scalable than discretionary or mandatory access control?

takes more of a real world approach to structuring access control. Access under RBAC is based on a user’s job function within the organization to which the computer system belongs.


***

## Term 

**Authorization**

 is the function of specifying access rights/privileges to resources, which is related to general information security and computer security, and to access control in particular. More formally, "to authorize" is to define an access policy.


**Role-based access control** 

(RBAC) is a method of restricting network access based on the roles of individual users within an enterprise. RBAC lets employees have access rights only to the information they need to do their jobs and prevents them from accessing information that doesn't pertain to them.

**capability**

 is the ability to perform or achieve certain actions or outcomes. As it applies to human capital, capability represents performing or achieving certain actions/outcomes in terms of the intersection of capacity and ability.

***

## Event-Driven Programming in Node.js

Event-Driven Programming is a logical pattern that we can choose to confine our programming within to avoid issues of complexity and collision. In this article we’re going to go over how Event-Driven Programming works and how we can make the best use of it in our Node.js projects.


#### Event-Driven Programming makes use of the following concepts:

- An Event Handler is a callback function that will be called when an event is triggered.
- A Main Loop listens for event triggers and calls the associated event handler for that event.


**EventEmitter**

Node.js natively provides us with a useful module called EventEmitter that allows us to get started incorporating Event-Driven Programming in our project right away. Of course, creating our own version of EventEmitter wouldn’t be much of a challange, and in fact there are several modules published on npm such as EventEmitter2 and EventEmitter3 which promise a faster performance than the native EventEmitter.


Much of the Node.js core API is built around an idiomatic asynchronous event-driven architecture in which certain kinds of objects (called "emitters") emit named events that cause Function objects ("listeners") to be called.

For instance: a net.Server object emits an event each time a peer connects to it; a fs.ReadStream emits an event when the file is opened; a stream emits an event whenever data is available to be read.

All objects that emit events are instances of the EventEmitter class. These objects expose an eventEmitter.on() function that allows one or more functions to be attached to named events emitted by the object. Typically, event names are camel-cased strings but any valid JavaScript property key can be used.

When the EventEmitter object emits an event, all of the functions attached to that specific event are called synchronously. Any values returned by the called listeners are ignored and discarded.


***

[Recource1](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/nodejs-event-driven-programming)

[Recource2](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html)



[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com