# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?
FIFO queues have essentially the same features as standard queues, but provide the added benefits of supporting ordering and exactly-once processing. FIFO queues provide additional features that help prevent unintentional duplicates from being sent by message producers or from being received by message consumers.

2. How can the server be assured a message was properly received?

both client and server undertake two communication activities. Client sends a request and receives a response whereas server receives a request and sends a response.


3. What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?

Event Notification

4. How do you test an event driven system?


the Order Service acts as an orchestrator, coordinating actions of all the other services, typically through a direct API call. This service is the brains of the system and is responsible for enforcing business rules around the order lifecycle, such as sending an email notification to the customer, when the order has been shipped.

***

# Terms

FIFO Queue :

In computing and in systems theory, FIFO (an acronym for first in, first out) is a method for organising the manipulation of a data structure (often, specifically a data buffer) where the oldest (first) entry, or "head" of the queue, is processed first.

Pub/Sub :

Pub/sub is shorthand for publish/subscribe messaging, an asynchronous communication method in which messages are exchanged between applications without knowing the identity of the sender or recipient.

***

## AWS SNS and SQS

Technical Comparison 

SNS:

Publisher / subscriber system 

publishing message to a topic can deliver to many subscribers 
of different types


SQS :

queueing service fo message processing

a system must poll the queue to discover new events

messages in the queue are typically processed by a single customer

[Watch Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mXk0MNjlO7A)

***


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com