## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. Describe “The Cloud”

"The cloud" refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers. ... By using cloud computing, users and companies don't have to manage physical servers themselves or run software applications on their own machines.


2. What is a container (as it relates to computers and servers)?

A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. ... Available for both Linux and Windows-based applications, containerized software will always run the same, regardless of the infrastructure.


3. What is auto-scaling?

AWS Auto Scaling lets you build scaling plans that automate how groups of different resources respond to changes in demand. You can optimize availability, costs, or a balance of both. AWS Auto Scaling automatically creates all of the scaling policies and sets targets for you based on your preference.


4. What is bandwidth?

Bandwidth is a measure of how much information a network can transfer. The volume of data that can be transported varies, impacting how effectively a transmission medium, such as an Internet connection, operates.



5. How do cloud providers compute service costs?

When setting price, cloud providers determine the expense to maintaining the network. They start by calculating costs for network hardware, network infrastructure maintenance, and labor. These expenses are added together and then divided by the number of rack units a business will need for its IaaS cloud.

***

# Terms

Server Instances term :

An instance is a single copy of the software running on a single physical or virtual server. If you run two copies of the software on the same physical or virtual server, that counts as two instances.

Containers :

A container is a software package that contains everything the software needs to run. This includes the executable program as well as system tools, libraries, and settings. ... Second, containers provide added security since the software will not affect the host operating system.

Cloud Services :

Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage (cloud storage) and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet.


Cloud Architecture :


Cloud Architecture refers to the various components in terms of databases, software capabilities, applications, etc. engineered to leverage the power of cloud resources to solve business problems. Cloud architecture defines the components as well as the relationships between them.


AWS :

Many startup customers using Amazon Web Services (AWS) tell us the reason they choose AWS is because we are developer centric and offer a comprehensive set of software development kits (SDKs) for multiple popular programming languages including: .NET, Java and the JVM, Python, Ruby, PHP and Node.js.

EC2/Beanstalk vs Heroku :


We deploy a web application to Heroku and to AWS Elastic Beanstalk in production configurations; contrasting their implementations and pricing. note: This is not to say that AWS Elastic Beanstalk is the only comparable way to run workloads in AWS; it, however, is the one that most closely resembles Heroku.

***

## Amazon S3

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. 

Benefits :

- Industry-leading performance, scalability, availability, and durability

- Wide range of cost-effective storage classes

- Unmatched security, compliance, and audit capabilities 

- Easily manage data and access controls

- Query-in-place and process on-request

- Most supported cloud storage service


## AWS Lambda 


What is AWS Lambda?
AWS Lambda is a serverless computing service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS). Users of AWS Lambda create functions, self-contained applications written in one of the supported languages and runtimes, and upload them to AWS Lambda, which executes those functions in an efficient and flexible manner.


Due to Lambda’s architecture, it can deliver great benefits over traditional cloud computing setups for applications where:


1. individual tasks run for a short time;
2. each task is generally self-contained;
3. there is a large difference between the lowest and highest levels in the workload of the application.


***
 
 
[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com