# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. What are serverless functions?

A serverless function is a programmatic function written by a software developer for a single purpose. It's then hosted and maintained on infrastructure by cloud computing companies. These companies take care of code maintenance and execution so that developers can deploy new code faster and easier.


2. If you were to create a system that emulated Lambda functions, how would you do it?

You can invoke Lambda functions directly with the Lambda console, the Lambda API, the AWS SDK, the AWS CLI, and AWS toolkits. You can also configure other AWS services to invoke your function, or you can configure Lambda to read from a stream or queue and invoke your function.


3. Describe how a CDN works


A CDN (Content Delivery Network) is a highly-distributed platform of servers that helps minimize delays in loading web page content by reducing the physical distance between the server and the user. ... Without a CDN, content origin servers must respond to every single end user request.

***

## Term

Serverless Functions :

Serverless architecture (also known as serverless computing or function as a service, FaaS) is a software design pattern where applications are hosted by a third-party service, eliminating the need for server software and hardware management by the developer.


Cloud Storage :

Cloud storage allows you to save data and files in an off-site location that you access either through the public internet or a dedicated private network connection. Data that you transfer off-site for storage becomes the responsibility of a third-party cloud provider.

CDN :

A content delivery network (CDN) refers to a geographically distributed group of servers which work together to provide fast delivery of Internet content. A CDN allows for the quick transfer of assets needed for loading Internet content including HTML pages, javascript files, stylesheets, images, and videos.

***

## What is Amazon API Gateway?

Amazon API Gateway is a managed service that allows developers to define the HTTP endpoints of a REST API or a WebSocket API and connect those endpoints with the corresponding backend business logic. It also handles authentication, access control, monitoring, and tracing of API requests.

How does API Gateway integrate with other AWS services? 

Many AWS services support integration with Amazon API Gateway, including:

- AWS Lambda: run Lambda functions to generate HTTP API responses.
- AWS SNS: publish SNS notifications when an HTTP API endpoint is accessed.
- Amazon Cognito: provide authentication and authorization for your HTTP APIs.


Benefits of Amazon API Gateway

1. Map HTTP requests to specific functions in a Serverless application viaanAPI Gateway event.

2. Map WebSocket events to Serverless functions.

3. Use multiple microservices to serve the same top-level API.

4. Save time with integrations: authentication, developer portal, CloudTrail, CloudWatch.


### Amazon API Gateway limits

- Regional APIs: you can only have 600 regional APIs per AWS account. That’s a lot; most teams won’t reach this limit.
Integration timeouts: the shortest possible timeout for an 
- integration in API Gateway is 50 ms, and the longest is 29 seconds.
- Payload size: the maximum payload size that can be returned by an API endpoint is 10MB. If you’re planning to return more data per request than that, you may need to split up the payload into multiple pages.


## What is DynamoDB?


1. reliable performance even as it scales;
2. a managed experience, so you won't be SSH-ing into servers to upgrade the crypto libraries;
3. a small, simple API allowing for simple key-value access as well as more advanced query patterns.


### Dynamoose

Dynamoose is a modeling tool for Amazon's DynamoDB. Dynamoose is heavily inspired by Mongoose, which means if you are coming from Mongoose the syntax will be very familar.

## Key Features#
- Type safety
- High level API
- Easy to use syntax
- Ability to transform data before saving or retrieving documents
- Strict data modeling (validation, required attributes, and more)
- Support for DynamoDB Transactions
- Powerful Conditional/Filtering Support
- Callback & Promise support 

***


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com