## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. Name 5 Javascript UI Frameworks (other than React)

Angular / Vue.js / Ember.js / Meteor / Mithril 

2. What’s the difference between a framework and a library?

The technical difference between a framework and library lies in a term called inversion of control. When you use a library, you are in charge of the application flow. You choose when and where to call the library. When you use a framework, the framework is in charge of the flow. 

## terms

*Rendering* refers to showing the output in the browser.

*Templates* A template is a tool for enforcing a standard layout and look and feel across multiple pages or within content regions. When you change a template, any pages or regions that are based on that template are automatically changed as well.

*State*  The concept of State in programming refers to the value of all variables that determine the status or condition of the program or object in question.

***

# REACT

The smallest React example looks like this:

```js
ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```

## JSX

It is called JSX, and it is a syntax extension to JavaScript. We recommend using it with React to describe what the UI should look like. JSX may remind you of a template language, but it comes with the full power of JavaScript.

JSX produces React “elements”.

## Why JSX?
React embraces the fact that rendering logic is inherently coupled with other UI logic: how events are handled, how the state changes over time, and how the data is prepared for display. 

## Rendering Elements

Elements are the smallest building blocks of React apps.

An element describes what you want to see on the screen

## Updating the Rendered Element
React elements are immutable. Once you create an element, you can’t change its children or attributes. An element is like a single frame in a movie: it represents the UI at a certain point in time.

## React Only Updates What’s Necessary
React DOM compares the element and its children to the previous one, and only applies the DOM updates necessary to bring the DOM to the desired state.


****


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com