# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. Do child components have direct access to props/state from the parent?

No, they have access to state from parent and have access to props as a functional component.

2. When a component “wraps” another component, how does the child component’s output get rendered?

```
<Main>
  <Content />
</Main>
```

when there is an update to state.


3. Can a component, such as `<Content />`, which is a child also be used as a standalone component elsewhere in the application?

Yes if we made it as separate component


4. What trick can a parent use to share all props with it’s children

by a class or inheritance.

# Term

**props.children**

props. children does is that it is used to display whatever you include between the opening and closing tags when invoking a component. A simple example: Here's an example of a stateless function that is used to create a component.


**composition**

Composition is one of the fundamental concepts in object-oriented programming. It describes a class that references one or more objects of other classes in instance variables. This allows you to model a has-a association between objects.

***

# Queries

Queries are the methods that Testing Library gives you to find elements on the page. There are several types of queries ("get", "find", "query"); the difference between them is whether the query will throw an error if no element is found or if it will return a Promise and retry. Depending on what page content you are selecting, different queries may be more or less appropriate. See the priority guide for recommendations on how to make use of semantic queries to test your page in the most accessible way.

After selecting an element, you can use the Events API or user-event to fire events and simulate user interactions with the page, or use Jest and jest-dom to make assertions about the element.

There are Testing Library helper methods that work with queries. As elements appear and disappear in response to actions, Async APIs like waitFor or findBy queries can be used to await the changes in the DOM. To find only elements that are children of a specific element, you can use within. If necessary, there are also a few options you can configure, like the timeout for retries and the default testID attribute.


Example#

```
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react' // (or /dom, /vue, ...)

test('should show login form', () => {
  render(<Login />)
  const input = screen.getByLabelText('Username')
  // Events and assertions...
})

````

Types of Queries#

- Single Elements
   - getBy...: Returns the matching node for a query, and throw a descriptive error if no elements match or if more than one match is found (use getAllBy instead if more than one element is expected).

   - queryBy...: Returns the matching node for a query, and return null if no elements match. This is useful for asserting an element that is not present. Throws an error if more than one match is found (use queryAllBy instead if this is OK).

   - findBy...: Returns a Promise which resolves when an element is found which matches the given query. The promise is rejected if no element is found or if more than one element is found after a default timeout of 1000ms. If you need to find more than one element, use findAllBy.

- Multiple Elements

   - getAllBy...: Returns an array of all matching nodes for a query, and throws an error if no elements match.

   - queryAllBy...: Returns an array of all matching nodes for a query, and return an empty array ([]) if no elements match.

   - findAllBy...: Returns a promise which resolves to an array of elements when any elements are found which match the given query. The promise is rejected if no elements are found after a default timeout of 1000ms.

       - findBy methods are a combination of getBy* queries and waitFor. They accept the waitFor options as the last argument (i.e. await screen.findByText('text', queryOptions, waitForOptions))


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com