# Review, Research, and Discussion


1. Why do we not need more .html pages in a multi-page React app?

React is a great front-end framework for building user interfaces with a manageable state and reusable components across your application it is widely used for building single page apps but in some cases you will need to deal with a multi-page app only running on the browser without linking with a backend-server


2. If we wanted a component to show up on every page, where would we put it and why?
   - Outside the <BrowserRouter/>
   - Inside the <BrowserRouter />, outside a <Route />
   - Inside a <Route />

   ```
      - Inside a <Route />

   ```
3. What does props.children contain?

Essentially, props. children is a special prop, automatically passed to every component, that can be used to render the content included between the opening and closing tags when invoking a component.


# Terms 

 - Composition

Composition is one of the fundamental concepts in object-oriented programming. It describes a class that references one or more objects of other classes in instance variables. This allows you to model a has-a association between objects. You can find such relationships quite regularly in the real world.



 - Children / Child Components

 Children allow you to pass components as data to other components, just like any other prop you use. ... The special thing about children is that React provides support through its ReactElement API and JSX. XML children translate perfectly to React children!

A child component is a more specific part inside a parent component. Example would be a parent component being a PERSON. ARMS and LEGS are child components of it.



 - Hash Routing

 It uses URL hash, it puts no limitations on supported browsers or web server. Server-side routing is independent from client-side routing. Backward-compatible single-page application can use it as example.com/#/react/route.



 - Link Routing


The basic concept of link-state routing is that every node constructs a map of the connectivity to the network, in the form of a graph, showing which nodes are connected to which other nodes. Each node then independently calculates the next best logical path from it to every possible destination in the network.


**** 

# hooks

I strongly recommend to watch this opening keynote to see the problems we’re trying to solve with the Hooks proposal. However, even an hour is a big time investment, so I decided to share a few thoughts on Hooks below.
Note: Hooks are an experimental proposal to React. You don’t need to learn about them right now. Also, note that this post contains my personal opinions and doesn’t necessarily reflect the positions of the React team.

### Why Hooks?

We know that components and top-down data flow help us organize a large UI into small, independent, reusable pieces. However, we often can’t break complex components down any further because the logic is stateful and can’t be extracted to a function or another component. Sometimes that’s what people mean when they say React doesn’t let them “separate concerns.”
These cases are very common and include animations, form handling, connecting to external data sources, and many other things we want to do from our components. When we try to solve these use cases with components alone, we usually end up with:
Huge components that are hard to refactor and test.
Duplicated logic between different components and lifecycle methods.
Complex patterns like render props and higher-order components.


Hooks apply the React philosophy (explicit data flow and composition) inside a component, rather than just between the components. That’s why I feel that Hooks are a natural fit for the React component model.
Unlike patterns like render props or higher-order components, Hooks don’t introduce unnecessary nesting into your component tree. They also don’t suffer from the drawbacks of mixins.
Even if you have a visceral first reaction (as I did at first!), I encourage you to give this proposal a fair try and play with it. I think you’ll like it.

***


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com