# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. What does a component’s lifecycle refer to?


Every React Component has a lifecycle of its own, lifecycle of a component can be defined as the series of methods that are invoked in different stages of the component's existence. ... Mounting: Mounting is the stage of rendering the JSX returned by the render method itself.


2. Why do you sometimes need to “wrap” functions in useCallback when called from within useEffect

useCallback will help in avoiding regeneration of functions when the functional component re-renders. However there isn't much of a performance difference caused by recreation of functions. You are specifying a function as a dependency to useEffect .



3. Why are functional components preferred over class components?

Functional component are much easier to read and test because they are plain JavaScript functions without state or lifecycle-hooks. You end up with less code. They help you to use best practices.


4. What is wrong with the following code?

```
import React, {useState, useEffect} from 'react';

function MyComponent(props) {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  function changeCount(e) {
    setCount(e.target.value);
  }

  let renderedItems = []

  for (let i = 0; i < count; i++) {
    useEffect( () => {
      console.log('component mount/update');
    }, [count]);

    renderedItems.push(<div key={i}>Item</div>);
  }

  return (<div>
     <input type='number' value={count} onChange={changeCount}/>
      {renderedItems}
    </div>);
}
```
We can't use useEffect() method inside a for loop
***


# Term
1. state hook

A Hook is a special function that lets you “hook into” React features. For example, useState is a Hook that lets you add React state to function components.


2. effect hook

The hook effect or the prozone effect is an immunologic phenomenon whereby the effectiveness of antibodies to form immune complexes is sometimes impaired when concentrations of an antibody or an antigen are very high.


3. reducer hook


This is similar to the pattern Redux uses but with a few differences. For example, the useReducer function is tightly coupled to a specific reducer. ... A reducer — a function that returns some state data, triggered by an action type. An action — an object that tells the reducer how to change the state.

***

## The Benefits of Using Hooks

Hooks have a lot of benefit to us as developers, and they are going to change the way we write components for the better. They already help us to write clearer and more concise code - it's like we went on a code diet and we lost a lot of weight and we look better and feel better. It brings out our jawline and makes us feel lighter on our toes. It's the one change that works for us. Just look at what React Hooks have done for others!

## Five Important Rules for Hooks

1. Never call Hooks from inside a loop, condition or nested function
2. Hooks should sit at the top-level of your component
3. Only call Hooks from React functional components
4. Never call a Hook from a regular function
5. Hooks can call other Hooks

## Class vs Functional Counter Component Example with useState
Below we follow the canonical counter component example provided in the React documentation. It's a pretty simple demo that contains a button inside of a Counter component. Once clicked, it advances the state by one and updates the state.count for rendering purposes.

```
In the past, some React developers have experienced confusion around when to use and when not to use classes. This question can be dated back years ago in one case by an article from Dan Abramov: How to Sleep at Night using React Classes. Even though we might sometimes use them in the current React or run across them in the future when working with legacy code, that issue is being handled now and we already see developers having strong opinions and using mostly functional components.

When talking about what the React team was doing to make it easier to build great UIs as well as improve the developer experience in React, Sophie Alpert asked a great question.

```

***

[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com