## Review, Research, and Discussion


1. Describe use cases for useMemo() and useReducer()

useMemo is a React hook that memorizes the output of a function. That is it. useMemo accepts two arguments: a function and a list of dependencies. useMemo will call the function and return its return value.

useReducer is used to store and update states, just like the useState Hook. It accepts a reducer function as its first parameter and the initial state as the second.


2. Why do custom hooks need the use prefix?

Both components and Hooks are functions, so this works for them too! There's nothing new inside of it — the logic is copied from the components above. ... Its name should always start with use so that you can tell at a glance that the rules of Hooks apply to it.


3. What do custom hooks usually do?
Using any list of custom hooks, research and name one that you think will be useful in your applications

Custom hooks allow us to have cleaner functional components, remove logic from the UI layer, and prevent code duplication by bringing common use cases to reusable hooks.


4. Describe how a hook that fetches API data might work

First, we're going to import stuff we're going to use and create a function. The next step is to add a useState hook and to define the name of the state - in our case, that's data. Then, we define the function we'll use later on to update the state - setData.




Term :

**reducer** 

The concept of a Reducer became popular in JavaScript with the rise of Redux as state management solution for React. ... Basically reducers are there to manage state in an application. For instance, if a user writes something in an HTML input field, the application has to manage this UI state (e.g. controlled components).

***

## Context


In a typical React application, data is passed top-down (parent to child) via props, but such usage can be cumbersome for certain types of props (e.g. locale preference, UI theme) that are required by many components within an application. Context provides a way to share values like these between components without having to explicitly pass a prop through every level of the tree.


## When to Use Context

Context is designed to share data that can be considered “global” for a tree of React components, such as the current authenticated user, theme, or preferred language. For example, in the code below we manually thread through a “theme” prop in order to style the Button component


```
Context is primarily used when some data needs to be accessible by many components at different nesting levels. Apply it sparingly because it makes component reuse more difficult.

If you only want to avoid passing some props through many levels, component composition is often a simpler solution than context.

For example, consider a Page component that passes a user and avatarSize prop several levels down so that deeply nested Link and Avatar components can read it
```

***
Necessity for the Design System
After performing an audit on how we communicate with our users, we landed with a simple system of three classes of communication, and snackbars fit perfectly on the ‘low priority’ end of that spectrum. They are small notifications that show up on the screen when a user performs an action. They are not intrusive at all and appear for just a brief moment.



[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com