## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. Why is the Context API useful?

The React Context API is a way for a React app to effectively produce global variables that can be passed around. This is the alternative to "prop drilling" or moving props from grandparent to child to parent, and so on. Context is also touted as an easier, lighter approach to state management using Redux.


2. Can a component outside of a provider get its context?

The most common way to access Context from a class component is via the static contextType . If you need the value from Context outside of render , or in a lifecycle method, you'll use it this way. The traditional way to retrieve Context values was by wrapping the child component in the Consumer 


3. What are some common use cases for using the Context API?

Some sample use cases where the Context API proves helpful are: Theming — Pass down app theme. i18n — Pass down translation messages. Authentication — Pass down current authenticated user.


4. Describe “Context Hell”

Like the callback hell, usual when jQuery was used for everything, the React Context hell is the nasty code you get taking advantage of the React Context API.



## Term
- global state

In computer programming, a global variable is a variable with global scope, meaning that it is visible (hence accessible) throughout the program, unless shadowed. The set of all global variables is known as the global environment or global state.


- global context

Abstract: A programming context can be defined as all the relevant information that a developer needs to complete a task. Context comprises information from different sources and programmers interpret the same information differently based on their programming goal.

- provider

Providers are a subclass of the ProviderBase class and typically instantiated using a factory method. The provider model in ASP.NET 2.0 provides extensibility points for developers to plug their own implementation of a feature into the runtime.


- consumer


A classic concurrent programming design pattern is producer-consumer, where processes are designated as either producers or consumers. The producers are responsible for adding to some shared data structure and the consumers are responsible for removing from that structure.

***

## what is role based access control?

DEFINITION OF ROLE-BASED ACCESS CONTROL (RBAC)
Role-based access control (RBAC) restricts network access based on a person's role within an organization and has become one of the main methods for advanced access control. The roles in RBAC refer to the levels of access that employees have to the network.


EXAMPLES OF ROLE-BASED ACCESS CONTROL
Through RBAC, you can control what end-users can do at both broad and granular levels. You can designate whether the user is an administrator, a specialist user, or an end-user, and align roles and access permissions with your employees’ positions in the organization. Permissions are allocated only with enough access as needed for employees to do their jobs.

## BENEFITS OF RBAC

1. Reducing administrative work and IT support.

2. Maximizing operational efficiency.

3. Improving compliance.

## react-cookies

Load and save cookies with React

```
$ npm install react-cookies --save
```

**Integrations**

universal-cookie - Universal cookies for JavaScript


universal-cookie-express - Hook cookies get/set on Express for server-rendering



***


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com