
# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. What are the advantages of storing tokens in “Cookies” vs “Local Storage”

If you don't have a back-end and you're relying on a third-party API, you can't always ask them to set a specific cookie for your site. Works with APIs that require you to put your access token in the header like this: Authorization Bearer ${access_token} 


2. Explain 3rd party cookies.

Third-party cookies are cookies that are set by a website other than the one you are currently on. For example, you can have a "Like" button on your website which will store a cookie on a visitor's computer, that cookie can later be accessed by Facebook to identify visitors and see which websites they visited.


3. How do pixel tags work?

A tracking pixel (also called 1x1 pixel or pixel tag) is a graphic with dimensions of 1x1 pixels that is loaded when a user visits a webpage or opens an email. ... The tracking pixel URL is the memory location on the server. When the user visits a website, the image with the tag is loaded from this server.



# Term

- cookies

Cookies are text files with small pieces of data — like a username and password — that are used to identify your computer as you use a computer network. Specific cookies known as HTTP cookies are used to identify specific users and improve your web browsing experience.

- authorization

Authorization is a security mechanism to determine access levels or user/client privileges related to system resources including files, services, computer programs, data and application features. ... Key factors contain user type, number and credentials, requiring verification and related actions and roles.


- access control

Access control is a security technique that regulates who or what can view or use resources in a computing environment. ... Physical access control limits access to campuses, buildings, rooms and physical IT assets. Logical access control limits connections to computer networks, system files and data.

- conditional rendering

Conditional rendering is a term to describe the ability to render different user interface (UI) markup if a condition is true or false. In React, it allows us to render different elements or components based on a condition. This concept is applied often in the following scenarios: Rendering external data from an API.



****

# Redux 

Redux provides a solid, stable, and mature solution to managing state in your React application. Through a handful of small, useful patterns, Redux can transform your application from a total mess of confusing and scattered state, into a delightfully organized, easy to understand modern JavaScript powerhouse.

The principles of Redux aren't new, but they are packaged and presented for you in an easy to use a library that not only elevates your applications but also improves your general understanding of building JavaScript UIs.




[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com