# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. What’s the best practice for “pre-loading” data into the store (on application start) in a Redux application?

   The best practice is to wrap the opening preloaded in useEffect. With this, you need to take the function outside of the props that you passed into the component.

2. When using a thunk/async action that dispatches the actual action, which do you export from your reducer?

   You will still be exporting the new data to replace the state from the reducer. The action calling the reducer will be sent as a function rather than an object.

# Term

- middleware

  Redux middleware provides a third-party extension point between dispatching an action, and the moment it reaches the reducer. People use Redux middleware for logging, crash reporting, talking to an asynchronous API, routing, and more.

- thunk

  Redux Thunk is middleware that allows you to return functions, rather than just actions, within Redux. This allows for delayed actions, including working with promises. One of the main use cases for this middleware is for handling actions that might not be synchronous, for example, using axios to send a GET request.

# Preparation Materials

**What is Redux Toolkit?**
is our official, opinionated, batteries-included toolset for efficient Redux development.

Redux Toolkit was originally created to help address three common concerns about Redux:

- Configuring a Redux store is too complicated
- I have to add a lot of packages to get Redux to do anything useful
- Redux requires too much boilerplate code

Redux Toolkit includes:

- A `configureStore()` function with simplified configuration options. It can automatically combine your slice reducers, adds whatever Redux middleware you supply, includes redux-thunk by default, and enables use of the Redux DevTools Extension.

- A `createReducer()` utility that lets you supply a lookup table of action types to case reducer functions, rather than writing switch - - statements. In addition, it automatically uses the immer library to let you write simpler immutable updates with normal mutative code, like `state.todos[3].completed = true`.

- A `createAction()` utility that returns an action creator function for the given action type string. The function itself has toString() - defined, so that it can be used in place of the type constant.

- A `createSlice()` function that accepts a set of reducer functions, a slice name, and an initial state value, and automatically generates a slice reducer with corresponding action creators and action types.

- The `createSelector` utility from the Reselect library, re-exported for ease of use.

**MobX**

- MobX is an open-source state management tool.
- is unopinionated and allows you to manage your application state outside of any UI framework.
- This makes your code decoupled, portable, and above all, easily testable.


[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com
