# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. Compare and Contrast Redux Toolkit with Redux “Ducks”

   Ducks is a way to bundle reducers, action types, and actions into the same file. Rather than splitting up related code, it can be packaged into redux modules. (source: Medium (Links to an external site.)) Redux Toolkit’s goal is to help simplify common Redux use cases. It is not intended to be a complete solution for everything you might want to do with Redux, but it should make a lot of Redux-related code you need to write a lot simpler. Redux Toolkit exports several individual functions that you can use in your application, and adds in dependencies on some other packages that are commonly used with Redux.

2. What is the principle advantage of Redux Toolkit

   Helps to solve three major problems with Redux: configuring a Redux store, adding numerous packages to get Redux to things, and removing unnecessary or boilerplate code.

# Terms

- redux toolkit slices
  Redux slice is a collection of reducer logic and actions for a single feature of application (source: Medium (Links to an external site.)). Redux state is typically organized into slices, defined by the reducers that are passed to combineReducers

- namespace
  Programming paradigm of providing scope to identifiers (names of types, functions, variables, etc) to prevent collisions between them. JavaScript does not provide namespace by default. However, we can replicate this functionality by making a global object which can contain all functions and variables.

# React Native

**React Native** brings React's declarative UI framework to iOS and Android. With React Native, you use native UI controls and have full access to the native platform.

React Native also means a great, collaborative community of developers from all around the world. We scanned through the blogging platforms and social media sites and created a list of the best React Native experts & blogs.

React Native, the framework has been brought to mobile. React Native is a great option for creating performant iOS and Android apps that feel at home on their respective platforms, all while building on any previous web development experience.

As it turns out, React has proved tremendously successful, both on my own projects, and with many others around the web, including large companies like Netflix. And now with React Native, the framework has been brought to mobile. React Native is a great option for creating performant iOS and Android apps that feel at home on their respective platforms, all while building on any previous web development experience.

- **Declarative**. React makes it painless to create interactive UIs. Declarative views make your code more predictable and easier to debug.
- **Component-Based**. Build encapsulated components that manage their state, then compose them to make complex UIs.
- **Developer Velocity**. See local changes in seconds. Changes to JavaScript code can be live reloaded without rebuilding the native app.
- **Portability**. Reuse code across iOS, Android, and other platforms.

[HomePage](https://wafaankoush99.github.io/Reading-Notes/READMEcode401.html)  


contact wafadirawe@gmail.com
